The other thing that it's important
to understand about Deno is that it's
TypeScript first.
And in fact,
let's look at the Deno project here.
So let's just go out and
take a look at their GitHub here.
And let's go to their standard library.
And if we look at their standard library
here, let's take a look at HTTP.
You can see that everything in
Deno is written in typescript, so
they really expect that you're going
to write typescript, with Deno.
Now, Ryan and
his talk sort of mentions and he says,
dynamic languages like JavaScript and
Python are good for
things like prototyping and
doing scientific computing
running small batches of code
to do some isolated processing.
And and
then he doesn't explicitly say it, but
he's sort of implies that complex
systems on the other hand need
a structured language with
the type system, okay.
You may or
may not agree with that statement.
I don't know that I necessarily do.
But there are some key reasons why
you might want to consider TypeScript
as your preferred language, especially for
larger and more complex applications.
One of the beautiful things
about JavaScript is that there's
no one right way to do it.
And every one organizes
their projects differently.
Some people use classes some people don't.
Some people use objects
to store collections.
Some people use arrays.
If you remember the book, if you ever read
the book, The Lorax, if you're familiar
with that book in that book,
they're making this thing called a need.
And nobody's quite sure what it does.
It just does everything.
It's just whatever you want it to be.
And so JavaScript is kind of
like a need in that regard.
But this is also one of
the drawbacks because when
large organizations adopt JavaScript,
it's difficult for
them to standardize on it because they
have to invent their own patterns.
Strongly typed languages are different.
There's generally accepted patterns and
practices that go into object oriented
languages they've been around for a while.
Things like the the Gang
of Four's design patterns.
And by the way, one of those Erich Gamma,
who's one of the authors of the Gang of
Four is one of the architects of vs code.
So, there are some philosophical
reasons there to adopt it.
The other reasons are things
like better tooling.
So let us take a look at
something real quick here.
I am gonna go.
Actually, we do not need to, let us just
create a new file here and call it app.ts.
And what I wanna do here is I'm going
to pull in a module called Cosmos.
And this is
Azure's Cosmos DB TypeScript package.
We're not gonna use it.
I just want to use it to show you the
benefits of writing things in TypeScript.
And so
this module is written in TypeScript here.
And we'll wait for this to install here.
Just a second.
But once we get this, let's look at the
tooling benefits that we get from this.
So, what I wanna do
here is import from and
of course VS code is aware.
It sees the different packages that
we have here that can pull in.
And I'm actually gonna delete this
node modules folder cuz it's enormous.
So we want to be pulling from this what
we can do is, and this is not just for
Azure for TypeScript,
this works for JavaScript as well.
But we can pull in I think,
see here, Cosmos client from Azure cosmos.
Let's see what does it want?
I installed and they removed
the node modules folder where it was
[LAUGH] It's not gonna work very well.
Finally it's installed.
And then if we mouse over it here,
we get this tooling,
which is provided by TypeScript.
And again,
you get some of this with JavaScript,
DS codes pretty good about that.
But with TypeScript, you get even more.
So for instance, like we know here that
there's an overloaded constructor,
which is not something that
you can do with JavaScript.
You can't overload constructors, but
you can do that with TypeScript.
And you can take a connection string and
it's a type string.
Even better though,
is that we have this options, right but
we don't know what these options are.
But with TypeScript we do.
And so it knows that these are the
different options that you can gonna have
and then we know what type they are.
If we come over them again,
it tells us what they are.
And it tells us whether or
not they are required.
And we can tell that by
the question mark on the end,
which means they're optional parameters.
These are things that TypeScript provides
that you just don't get with JavaScript.
So just better tooling,
which is quite nice.
Quite a benefit.
The problem is currently with TypeScript,
which is not a first class citizen,
is that we have to transpile it or compile
it to something else before it'll run.
So for instance,
if we did something like this message
which is of type string says, Hello World.
And then let's just log it out.
We'll just log out the message.
All right.
Now the problem is that
node can't run this, right?
So if we were to pass this to node,
it's gonna error because it doesn't
recognize this type thing right here
that is specific to TypeScript.
So to run this, we actually have
to turn this into JavaScript.
And so to do that, we would then have to
initialize our project as a TypeScript
project with a ts config file,
which I just did with tsc dash dash and
let me clear out the terminal.
And then that file is gonna
have a ton of different I mean,
this is every possible option here.
But we actually don't
need to change anything.
We can just come to VS code and
do like a Ctrl Shift B.
And then we can select build,
and it will just build for
us based on that, ts config file.
And it should give us an app.js file
right, which looks like that and
now we can run this this will work.
And that's fine.
But the problem is that as you
have more and more files so
like let's say you have a utils file here.
A TypeScript file.
Make sure that's in the right directory.
And then, let's just add something
here called const utils, all right.
Then in order,
we have to compile this too.
So let's do that.
Let's see here.
No, no, no, let's do this.
There we go.
So it's build and now we have two files
and and then if we had source maps,
then we would have three files, right?
So every for every single file,
you have then a TypeScript file
a JavaScript file and a source map.
And the way that we usually deal with
this is you go to workspace settings.
Let's see workspace
settings in VS code and
what you can do is you can say,
I think it's files.exclude.
There we go.
And
then we can come in here and
just tell it like, these are called globs.
And we could say hey, just like we're
not gonna look at the .DS_Store,
let's just not show any JavaScript files,
right.
And as we save this,
then all of our JavaScript files,
oops, All of our JavaScript
files will go away.
And then we just see our code
files while they're still there.
We just don't see them.
The next problem that we have with
TypeScript is not a first class citizen is
that usually when we deploy the app,
we just want the JavaScript,
you don't want the TypeScript too,
we don't need that anymore, right?
The TypeScript is a source but
to run it in production,
we just want the JavaScript.
So how do we get just the JavaScript?
Well then to do that,
we have to come back to ts config.
And then we usually go to something
like the out directory and
we'll change this out directory to say,
I don't know it's slash,
let's just say it's like dist.
Like this, and now when we build,
if we do build,
we'll get a dist folder that will
contain just the JavaScript, right?
But we can't see it because we hid it, so
now we have to bring it back,
but there it is.
But you can see how this is starting
to become a problem, right?
Like there's configuration here.
We have to figure out how are we
gonna keep the JavaScript and
the map files from showing up?
Where are we gonna put them when
we actually do the build step.
None of this is a problem in Deno,
none of this.
TypeScript just works and we don't have
to do anything extra to make it do that.
Now I should note here that something
that's kind of interesting about node is
that so this app.js file, we can now run
this with node, app.js and that will work.
But node will execute any file.
[LAUGH] It doesn't care.
And so actually you don't even have to
have an extension you just call it app and
just say node app.
Oops node app.
There we go.
So you can try this out
just like take a file and
change the extension to something else.
I don't know like Git Smurf or something.
And this will work.
In Dino is actually the same way Deno
doesn't care that the file extension.
If it's not a ts extension,
then Deno will assume that is JavaScript.
Otherwise, if it's ts,
it will try to parse it as TypeScript.
So just a little bit of information
about how those things work.
All right, so
we've been over this we talked about
excluding files about output directories.
I'm not saying that any of this is a bad
thing, maybe this is how it should be.
But usually when you wanna
have a TypeScript project,
you now need to bring in gulp.
And you need some sort
of an a build process.
And all I'm saying is these
things can be tricky to set up,
easy to mess up and kind of a drag.
In Dino TypeScript is
a first class citizen.
And so, as you see, what that means is
that all of that hackiness of compilation
and where we put files and
all that stuff, all that goes away.
The TypeScript just is your code.
And that's all there is.